# Go protobuf 笔记

## 安装相关软件和库

需要安装protocol buffer编译器(编译.proto文件)和对应语言(如Go、PHP等)的运行时库；

1. 下载预编译的C++二进制版本的[protobuf编译器](https://github.com/google/protobuf/releases)；
1. Go的protobuf运行时库(用于Marchal/Unmarchal protobuf类型等)：
    go get -u github.com/golang/protobuf/proto;
1. Go的protobuf编译器插件，用于将proto定义文件生成Go代码，该插件将被安装到$GOBIN：
    go get -u github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go

## 使用protocol buffer

编译器和编译器插件可以将`*.proto`文件编译为Go源码，然后import它们到Go源文件中，使用运行时库Marchal/Unmarchal生成的类型；

``` shell
    protoc --go_out=. *.proto
```

`--go_out`参数：指明使用protoc-gen-go插件，同时指定输出go文件的目录；输出的文件名后缀为.pb.go;

## protocol buffer定义的变量v和生成的Go代码的关系

+ Names are turned from camel_case to CamelCase for export. // name由下划线分割的camel_case转换为CamelCase;
+ There are no methods on v to set fields; just treat them as structure fields.  // fields没有set方法；
+ There are getters that return a field's value if set, and return the field's default value if unset. // proto3有变化；
    The getters work even if the receiver is a nil message.
+ The zero value for a struct is its correct initialization state. All desired fields must be set before marshaling.
+ A Reset() method will restore a protobuf struct to its zero state.
+ Non-repeated fields are pointers to the values; nil means unset. That is, optional or required field int32 f becomes F *int32. // proto3有变化；
+ Repeated fields are slices.
+ Helper functions are available to aid the setting of fields. Helpers for getting values are superseded by the GetFoo methods and their use is deprecated. 
    msg.Foo = proto.String("hello") // set field // proto3有变化，只对message和oneof fields定义了Get方法；
+ Constants are defined to hold the default values of all fields that have them. They have the form Default_StructName_FieldName. 
    Because the getter methods handle defaulted values, direct use of these constants should be rare.
    // 常量被定义为Default_StructName_FieldName的形式；
+ Enums are given type names and maps from names to values. Enum values are prefixed with the enum's type name. Enum types have a String method, 
    and a Enum method to assist in message construction.
    // Enumsy也定了相应类型，具有String和Enum方法；
+ Nested groups and enums have type names prefixed with the name of the surrounding message type.
+ Extensions are given descriptor names that start with E_, followed by an underscore-delimited list of the nested messages that contain it (if any) 
    followed by the CamelCased name of the extension field itself. HasExtension, ClearExtension, GetExtension and SetExtension are functions for 
    manipulating extensions.
+ Oneof field sets are given a single field in their message, with distinguished wrapper types for each possible field value.
+ Marshal and Unmarshal are functions to encode and decode the wire format.

When the .proto file specifies syntax="proto3", there are some differences:

+ Non-repeated fields of non-message type are values instead of pointers. 
    // message type的field或者repeated的field是指针类型，其它是value类型；
+ Getters are only generated for message and oneof fields. 
    // message type或者oneof type的field会生成Getter方法；
+ Enum types do not get an Enum method.

### 示例
test.proto文件内容：
```
    package example;  // 默认为proto2版本；

    enum FOO { X = 17; };

    message Test {
      required string label = 1;
      optional int32 type = 2 [default=77];
      repeated int64 reps = 3;
      optional group OptionalGroup = 4 {
        required string RequiredField = 5;
      }
    }
```
编译后生成expample package；使用protobuf的Go Runtime库来对上面的message类型进行编解码：
```
    package main

    import (
        "log"

        "github.com/golang/protobuf/proto"
        "path/to/example"
    )

    func main() {
        test := &example.Test {
            Label: proto.String("hello"),
            Type:  proto.Int32(17),
            Reps:  []int64{1, 2, 3},
            Optionalgroup: &example.Test_OptionalGroup {
                RequiredField: proto.String("good bye"),
            },
        }
        data, err := proto.Marshal(test)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal("marshaling error: ", err)
        }
        newTest := &example.Test{}
        err = proto.Unmarshal(data, newTest)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal("unmarshaling error: ", err)
        }
        // Now test and newTest contain the same data. // 注意，对于proto3，没有Get方法；
        if test.GetLabel() != newTest.GetLabel() {
            log.Fatalf("data mismatch %q != %q", test.GetLabel(), newTest.GetLabel())
        }
        // etc.
    }
```

## 编译器参数
可以给编译器插件传递参数：逗号分隔的k=v形式，使用:与output directory分开，如：
```
protoc --go_out=plugins=grpc,import_path=mypackage:. *.proto
```

+ import_prefix=xxx - a prefix that is added onto the beginning of all imports. Useful for things like generating protos in a subdirectory, 
    or regenerating vendored protobufs in-place.
+ import_path=foo/bar - used as the package if no input files declare go_package. If it contains slashes, everything up to the rightmost slash is ignored.
+ plugins=plugin1+plugin2 - specifies the list of sub-plugins to load. The only plugin in this repo is grpc. 当前只支持grpc插件；
+ Mfoo/bar.proto=quux/shme - declares that foo/bar.proto is associated with Go package quux/shme. This is subject to the import_prefix parameter.

## 支持gRPC

如果proto file中指定了RPC Services，则可以使用plugins=grpc指定protc-gen-go插件来生成gRPC使用的代码：
```
protoc --go_out=plugins=grpc:. *.proto
```

## Go generated Code

https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/go-generated

### Compiler Invocation

The protocol buffer compiler requires a plugin to generate Go code. Installing it with
```
$ go get github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go
```

provides a `protoc-gen-go` binary which protoc uses when invoked with the `--go_out` command-line flag. The --go_out flag tells the compiler where to write 
the Go source files. The compiler creates a single source file for each .proto file input.

 --go_out 选项指定使用protoc-gen-go插件；--java_out指定使用protoc-gen-java插件，也就是说--xxx_out选项对应 protoc-gen-xxx 插件；
 protoc-gen-go插件用于生成Go代码，可以向它传参数，如plugins=grpc，来指定生成rpc service interface代码；

The names of the output files are computed by taking the name of the .proto file and making two changes:
+ The extension (.proto) is replaced with .pb.go. For example, a file called player_record.proto results in an output file called player_record.pb.go.
+ The proto path (specified with the --proto_path or -I command-line flag) is replaced with the output path (specified with the --go_out flag).

每一个xxx.proto文件对应一个Go源文件；文件名为 xxx.pb.go；--go_out指定pb.go的输出目录；

When you run the proto compiler like this:

```
protoc --proto_path=src --go_out=build/gen src/foo.proto src/bar/baz.proto
```

the compiler will read the files src/foo.proto and src/bar/baz.proto. It produces two output files: build/gen/foo.pb.go and build/gen/bar/baz.pb.go.
The compiler automatically creates the directory build/gen/bar if necessary, but it will not create build or build/gen; they must already exist.

--go_out指定的输出目录必须事先存在；

### Packages

If a .proto file contains a `package` declaration, the generated code uses the proto's package as its Go package name, 
converting . characters into _ first. For example, a proto package name of `example.high_score` results in a Go package name of `example_high_score`.

You can override the default generated package for a particular .proto using the option `go_package` in your .proto file. For example, 
a .proto file containing

```
package example.high_score; // 生成的Go源文件的package name；
option go_package = "hs"; // 重载上面的package name定义；
```

generates a file with the Go package name `hs`.

Otherwise, if a .proto file does not contain a package declaration, the generated code uses the file name (minus the extension) as its Go package name, 
converting . characters into _ first. For example, a proto package named `high.score.proto` without a package declaration will result in a file
`high.score.pb.go` with package `high_score`.

proto文件中如果没有指定package，则默认使用文件名作为package name；

## Messages

Given a simple message declaration:

```
message Foo {}
```

the protocol buffer compiler generates a **struct** called Foo. A `*Foo` implements the Message interface. See the inline comments for more information.

```
type Foo struct {
}

// Reset sets the proto's state to default values.
func (m *Foo) Reset()         { *m = Foo{} }

// String returns a string representation of the proto.
func (m *Foo) String() string { return proto.CompactTextString(m) }

// ProtoMessage acts as a tag to make sure no one accidentally implements the
// proto.Message interface.
func (*Foo) ProtoMessage()    {}
```

Note that all of these members are always present; the `optimize_for` option does not affect the output of the Go code generator.

每一个message对应一个Go struct，编译器自动为`*Foo`类型定义了三个方法：Reset、String、ProtoMessage;

## Nested Types

A message can be declared inside another message. For example:

```
message Foo {
  message Bar {
  }
}
```

In this case, the compiler generates **two structs**: `Foo` and `Foo_Bar`.

每一个嵌套的Message对应一个struct，名称为: 外层MessageName_内层MessageName;

## Fields

The protocol buffer compiler generates **a struct field** for each field defined within a message. 
The exact nature of this field depends on its type and whether it is a singular, repeated, map, or oneof field.

生成的struct field类型取决于它是message、singular、repeated、map、oneof类型；

Note that the generated Go field names always use `camel-case` naming, even if the field name in the .proto file uses `lower-case with underscores` 
(as it should). The case-conversion works as follows:

1. The first letter is **capitalized** for export. If the first character is an underscore, it is removed and a capital X is prepended.
2. If an interior underscore is followed by a lower-case letter, the underscore is removed, and the following letter is capitalized.

Thus, the proto field `foo_bar_baz` becomes `FooBarBaz` in Go, and `_my_field_name_2` becomes `XMyFieldName_2`.

message中的filed name应该使用下划线分割的小写形式如camel_case，编译时首字母被大写，如果下划线后面试字母，则去掉下划线，同事字母大写；

### Singular Scalar Fields (proto2)

For either of these field definitions:

```
optional int32 foo = 1; // proto2需要指定field是否是可选的，但是proto3不需要指定；
required int32 foo = 1;
```

the compiler generates a struct with an `*int32` field named Foo and an accessor method `GetFoo()` which returns the int32 value in Foo or 
the **default value** if the field is unset. If the default is not explicitly set, the `zero value` of that type is used instead (0 for numbers, 
the empty string for strings).

For other scalar field types (including bool, bytes, and string), *int32 is replaced with the corresponding Go type according to the scalar value types table.

### Singular Scalar Fields (proto3)

For this field definition:

```
int32 foo = 1;
```

The compiler will generate a struct with an `int32` field named Foo. **No** helper methods are generated.

For other scalar field types (including bool, bytes, and string), int32 is replaced with the corresponding Go type according to the scalar value types table. Unset values in the proto will be represented as the zero value of that type (0 for numbers, the empty string for strings).

对于proto3版本，singular scalar生成对应fileld type value如int32，而不是proto2的*int32形式，proto3也不为singular scalar定义Getter方法；

### Singular Message Fields

Given the message type:

```
message Bar {}
```

For a message with a Bar field:
```
// proto2
message Baz {
  optional Bar foo = 1;
  // The generated code is the same result if required instead of optional.
}

// proto3
message Baz {
  Bar foo = 1;
}
```

The compiler will generate a Go struct

```
type Baz struct {
        Foo *Bar
}
```

Message fields can be set to nil, which means that the field is unset, effectively clearing the field. This is not equivalent to setting the 
value to an "empty" instance of the message struct.

The compiler also generates a func `(m *Baz) GetFoo() *Bar` helper function. This makes it possible to chain get calls without intermediate nil checks.

对于 singular message field, 编译器生成指针类型的field（*Bar)，且定义了Getter方法来获取该field的value；

### Repeated Fields

Each repeated field generates **a slice of T** field in the struct in Go, where T is the field's element type. For this message with a repeated field:
```
message Baz {
  repeated Bar foo = 1;
}
```
the compiler generates the Go struct:
```
type Baz struct {
        Foo  []*Bar // 对于repeated类型的field， 生成的是指针slice(repeated bytes和枚举类型的除外)；
}
```

Likewise, for the field definition `repeated bytes foo = 1;` the compiler will generate a Go struct with a `[][]byte` field named Foo. 
For a repeated enumeration `repeated MyEnum bar = 2;`, the compiler generates a struct with a `[]MyEnum` field called Bar.

### Map Fields

Each map field generates a field in the struct of type `map[TKey]TValue` where TKey is the field's key type and TValue is the field's value type.
For this message with a map field:
```
message Bar {}

message Baz {
  map<string, Bar> foo = 1;
}
```

the compiler generates the Go struct:
```
type Baz struct {
        Foo map[string]*Bar // map类型的field生成Go map，由于Bar是message type所以生成的是指向Bar的指针；
}
```

### Oneof Fields

For a oneof field, the protobuf compiler generates a single field with **an interface type** `isMessageName_MyField`. It also generates a struct for 
each of the singular fields within the oneof. These all implement this isMessageName_MyField interface.

For this message with a oneof field:
```
package account;
message Profile {
  oneof avatar {
    string image_url = 1;
    bytes image_data = 2;
  }
}
```

the compiler generates the structs:
```
type Profile struct {
        // Types that are valid to be assigned to Avatar:
        //      *Profile_ImageUrl
        //      *Profile_ImageData
        Avatar isProfile_Avatar `protobuf_oneof:"avatar"` // isProfile_Avatar是一个接口类型，下面两个struct实现了该接口；
}

type Profile_ImageUrl struct {
        ImageUrl string
}

type Profile_ImageData struct {
        ImageData []byte
}
```

Both *Profile_ImageUrl and *Profile_ImageData **implement** isProfile_Avatar by providing an empty `isProfile_Avatar()` method. 
This means that you can use a **type switch** on the value to handle the different message types.

```
switch x := m.Avatar.(type) {
case *account.Profile_ImageUrl:
        // Load profile image based on URL
        // using x.ImageUrl
case *account.Profile_ImageData:
        // Load profile image based on bytes
        // using x.ImageData
case nil:
        // The field is not set.
default:
        return fmt.Errorf("Profile.Avatar has unexpected type %T", x)
}
```

The compiler also generates get methods func (m *Profile) GetImageUrl() string and func (m *Profile) GetImageData() []byte. Each get function returns the value for that field or the zero value if it is not set.

### Enumerations

Given an enumeration like:

message SearchRequest {
  enum Corpus {
    UNIVERSAL = 0;
    WEB = 1;
    IMAGES = 2;
    LOCAL = 3;
    NEWS = 4;
    PRODUCTS = 5;
    VIDEO = 6;
  }
  Corpus corpus = 1;
  ...
}

the protocol buffer compiler generates a type and a series of constants with that type.

For enums within a message (like the one above), the type name begins with the message name:

type SearchRequest_Corpus int32

For a package-level enum:

enum Foo {
  DEFAULT_BAR = 0;
  BAR_BELLS = 1;
  BAR_B_CUE = 2;
}
the Go type name is unmodified from the proto enum name:

type Foo int32

This type has a String() method that returns the name of a given value.

The protocol buffer compiler generates a constant for each value in the enum. For enums within a message, the constants begin with the enclosing message's name:

const (
        SearchRequest_UNIVERSAL SearchRequest_Corpus = 0
        SearchRequest_WEB       SearchRequest_Corpus = 1
        SearchRequest_IMAGES    SearchRequest_Corpus = 2
        SearchRequest_LOCAL     SearchRequest_Corpus = 3
        SearchRequest_NEWS      SearchRequest_Corpus = 4
        SearchRequest_PRODUCTS  SearchRequest_Corpus = 5
        SearchRequest_VIDEO     SearchRequest_Corpus = 6
)

For a package-level enum, the constants begin with the enum name instead:

const (
        Foo_DEFAULT_BAR Foo = 0
        Foo_BAR_BELLS   Foo = 1
        Foo_BAR_B_CUE   Foo = 2
)

The protobuf compiler also generates a map from integer values to the string names and a map from the names to the values:

var Foo_name = map[int32]string{
        0: "DEFAULT_BAR",
        1: "BAR_BELLS",
        2: "BAR_B_CUE",
}
var Foo_value = map[string]int32{
        "DEFAULT_BAR": 0,
        "BAR_BELLS":   1,
        "BAR_B_CUE":   2,
}

Note that the .proto language allows multiple enum symbols to have the same numeric value. Symbols with the same numeric value are synonyms. These are represented in Go in exactly the same way, with multiple names corresponding to the same numeric value. The reverse mapping contains a single entry for the numeric value to the name which appears first in the .proto file.

### Services

The Go code generator does not produce output for services by default. If you enable the gRPC plugin (see the gRPC Go Quickstart guide) then code will be generated to support gRPC.